---
title: Migrating to Meteor 3.0
description: How to migrate your application to Meteor 3.0.
---

> **This guide will be created as we get closer to the Meteor 3.0 beta release.** We are also evaluating new documentation platforms to improve our users' experience.

## What's the status of version 3.0?

**Latest version:** `3.0-alpha.19` <br/>
**Node.js version:** `20.9.0 LTS`

Meteor 3.0 is in alpha and not recommended for production. You can check the "[Release 3.0 Pull Request](https://github.com/meteor/meteor/pull/12359)" to see what is being changed.

## How to prepare for version 3.0?

You can follow the guide "[How to migrate to Meteor Async in Meteor 2.x](/prepare-meteor-3.0.html)" to help you prepare your application for the new version by starting to use async methods.

## Frequently Asked Questions

### How to test Meteor 3.0?

You can create a new Meteor 3.0 project by running the command below:

```bash
meteor create my-new-project --release 3.0-alpha.19
```

### How to update from version 2?

You can update your Meteor 2.x project by running the command below inside your project folder:

```bash
meteor update --release 3.0-alpha.19
```

### How to follow the progress on version 3?

The best way to follow the progress is by checking the "[What's left until an official Meteor 3.0?](https://github.com/meteor/meteor/discussions/12865)" discussion. We have also been sharing constant updates on [this topic](https://forums.meteor.com/t/fibers-public-roadmap-and-meteor-3-0/59627/84) in our forum.

### When will Meteor 3.0 be ready?

Our plan is to release the beta version by the end of Q4 2023. An official version will depend a lot on user feedback, but we aim to release it by the end of Q1 2024.


### How do I migrate my package to be compatible with Meteor 3.0?

For the packages that are client only
or that are do not using Meteor packages that will become async
or are already using `async` & `await` pattern.

The migration will look like this:

```js
// in you package.js
Package.onUse((api) => {
  api.versionsFrom(['1.10', '2.3', '3.0-alpha.19']);
  //                               ^^^^^^^ for testing your package with meteor 3.0

  api.versionsFrom(['1.10', '2.3', '3.0']);
  //                              ^^^^^^^ for meteor 3.0

```
Then you can publish your package and test it with Meteor 3.0.

If in your package you are using Meteor packages that will become async,
you will need to migrate your package to use `async` & `await` pattern.

You can follow a more in depth guide on how to migrate your package to be compatible with Meteor 3.0 [here](/prepare-meteor-3.0#Changes-for-packages).
