*This file is automatically generated from [`html.js`](html.js).*

# HTMLjs

HTMLjs is a small library for expressing HTML trees with a concise
syntax.  It is used to render content in Blaze and to represent
templates during compilation.

```
var UL = HTML.UL, LI = HTML.LI, B = HTML.B;

HTML.toHTML(
 UL({id: 'mylist'},
    LI({'class': 'item'}, "Hello ", B("world"), "!"),
    LI({'class': 'item'}, "Goodbye, world")))
```

```
<ul id="mylist">
 <li class="item">Hello <b>world</b>!</li>
 <li class="item">Goodbye, world</li>
</ul>
```

The functions `UL`, `LI`, and `B` are constructors which
return instances of `HTML.Tag`.  These tag objects can
then be converted to an HTML string or directly into DOM nodes.

The flexible structure of HTMLjs allows different kinds of Blaze
directives to be embedded in the tree.  HTMLjs does not know about
these directives, which are considered "foreign objects."

# Built-in Types

The following types are built into HTMLjs.  Built-in methods like
`HTML.toHTML` expect a tree consisting only of these types.

* __`null`, `undefined`__ - Render to nothing.

* __boolean, number__ - Render to the string form of the boolean or number.

* __string__ - Renders to a text node (or part of an attribute value).  All characters are safe, and no HTML injection is possible.  The string `"<a>"` renders `&lt;a>` in HTML, and `document.createTextNode("<a>")` in DOM.

* __Array__ - Renders to its elements in order.  An array may be empty.  Arrays are detected using `HTML.isArray(...)`.

* __`HTML.Tag`__ - Renders to an HTML element (including start tag, contents, and end tag).

* __`HTML.CharRef({html: ..., str: ...})`__ - Renders to a character reference (such as `&nbsp`) when generating HTML.

* __`HTML.Comment(text)`__ - Renders to an HTML comment.

* __`HTML.Raw(html)`__ - Renders to a string of HTML to include verbatim.

The `new` keyword is not required before constructors of HTML object types.

All objects and arrays should be considered immutable.  Their properties
are public, but they should only be read, not written.  Arrays should not
be spliced in place.  This convention allows for clean patterns of
processing and transforming HTMLjs trees.


## HTML.Tag

An `HTML.Tag` is created using a tag-specific constructor, like
`HTML.P` for a `<p>` tag or `HTML.INPUT` for an `<input>` tag.  The
resulting object is `instanceof HTML.Tag`.  (The `HTML.Tag`
constructor should not be called directly.)

Tag constructors take an optional attributes dictionary followed
by zero or more children:

```
HTML.HR()

HTML.DIV(HTML.P("First paragraph"),
         HTML.P("Second paragraph"))

HTML.INPUT({type: "text"})

HTML.SPAN({'class': "foo"}, "Some text")
```

### Tag properties

Tags have the following properties:

* `tagName` - The tag name in lowercase (or camelCase)
* `children` - An array of children (always present)
* `attrs` - An attributes dictionary, `null`, or an array (see below)

### Special forms of attributes

The attributes of a Tag may be an array of dictionaries.  In order
for a tag constructor to recognize an array as the attributes argument,
it must be written as `HTML.Attrs(attrs1, attrs2, ...)`, as in this
example:

```
var extraAttrs = {'class': "container"};

var div = HTML.DIV(HTML.Attrs({id: "main"}, extraAttrs),
                   "This is the content.");

div.attrs // => [{id: "main"}, {'class': "container"}]
```

`HTML.Attrs` may also be used to pass a foreign object in place of
an attributes dictionary of a tag.

### Foreign objects

Arbitrary objects are allowed in HTMLjs trees, which is useful for
adapting HTMLjs to a wide variety of uses.  Such objects are called
foreign objects.

The one restriction on foreign objects is that they must be
instances of a class -- so-called "constructed objects" (see
`HTML.isConstructedObject`) -- so that they can be distinguished
from the vanilla JS objects that represent attributes dictionaries
when constructing Tags.
