*This file is automatically generated from [`var.js`](var.js).*

## [new] Blaze.Var(initializer[, equalsFunc])

A reactive mutable variable which may be initialized with a value
or with a function to immediately autorun.

* `initializer` - A function or a non-function value to use to
  initialize the Var.  If a function is given, it is called in
  a `Deps.autorun` nested within the current Deps computation.

* `equalsFunc` - A comparator function that takes two arguments
  and returns a boolean.  The value of the Var is only considered
  to have changed (for the purpose of invalidating Computations)
  if `equalsFunc(newValue, oldValue)` is truthy.  If `equalsFunc`
  is not given, `===` is used.

Blaze.Var holds a single reactive value, providing `get` and `set`
methods that obey the usual reactive contract of a Deps data
source.  (Namely, calling `get` causes the current Computation to
depend on the value, and calling `set` invalidates any dependent
Computations if it changes the value.)

If a function is provided as an initializer, it is called to set
the initial value of the Var, and a Computation is started that
sets the value of the Var each time it re-runs.  Because this new
(inner) Computation is nested in the current (outer) Computation,
when the outer Computation is invalidated, the inner Computation
is stopped.  A Var whose Computation is stopped continues to be
reactively gettable and settable in the usual way.

To avoid runaway Vars, an outer Computation is required to create a
Var with a function as initializer.  As long as the outer Computation
is eventually invalidated or stopped, the Var will eventually
stop recomputing its value.

Example:

```
var a = Blaze.Var(1);
var b = Blaze.Var(1);

Deps.autorun(function () {
  console.log('LOG:', a.get() + b.get());
});
// => LOG: 2

// These statements are assumed to be typed one at a time
// at the console, giving the autorun a chance to re-run
// between them.
b.set(2); // => LOG: 3
a.set(2); // => LOG: 4
a.set(10), b.set(10); // => LOG: 20 (printed once)
```

To use a Var with an initializer function, an outer autorun is necessary
and is used to stop the recomputation.

Example:

```
var a = Blaze.Var(1);
var b = Blaze.Var(1);

var handle = Deps.autorun(function () {
  var c = Blaze.Var(function () {
    return a.get() + b.get();
  });

  Deps.autorun(function () {
    console.log('LOG:', c.get());
  });
});
// => LOG: 2

// These statements are assumed to be typed one at a time
// at the console.
b.set(2); // => LOG: 3
a.set(2); // => LOG: 4
a.set(10), b.set(10); // => LOG: 20 (printed once)
handle.stop();
a.set(1); // nothing printed
```


## Blaze.Var#get()

Returns the current value of the Var, causing the current
Deps Computation (if any) to depend on the value.
  

## Blaze.Var#set(newValue)

Sets the current value of the Var, causing any dependent
Computations to be invalidated.
  

## Blaze.Var#toString()

Returns a String representation of the Var, which
includes the string form of its value.
  