*This file is automatically generated from [`html.js`](html.js).*

# HTMLjs

HTMLjs is a small library for expressing HTML trees with a concise
syntax.  It is used to render content in Blaze and to represent
templates during compilation.

```
var UL = HTML.UL, LI = HTML.LI, B = HTML.B;

HTML.toHTML(
 UL({id: 'mylist'},
    LI({'class': 'item'}, "Hello ", B("world"), "!"),
    LI({'class': 'item'}, "Goodbye, world")))
```

```
<ul id="mylist">
 <li class="item">Hello <b>world</b>!</li>
 <li class="item">Goodbye, world</li>
</ul>
```

The functions `UL`, `LI`, and `B` are constructors which
return instances of `HTML.Tag`.  These tag objects can
then be converted to an HTML string or directly into DOM nodes.

The flexible structure of HTMLjs allows different kinds of Blaze
directives to be embedded in the tree.  HTMLjs does not know about
these directives, which are considered "foreign objects."

# Built-in Types

The following types are built into HTMLjs.  Built-in methods like
`HTML.toHTML` require a tree consisting only of these types.

* __`null`, `undefined`__ - Render to nothing.

* __boolean, number__ - Render to the string form of the boolean or number.

* __string__ - Renders to a text node (or part of an attribute value).  All characters are safe, and no HTML injection is possible.  The string `"<a>"` renders `&lt;a>` in HTML, and `document.createTextNode("<a>")` in DOM.

* __Array__ - Renders to its elements in order.  An array may be empty.  Arrays are detected using `HTML.isArray(...)`.

* __`HTML.Tag`__ - Renders to an HTML element (including start tag, contents, and end tag).

* __`HTML.CharRef({html: ..., str: ...})`__ - Renders to a character reference (such as `&nbsp`) when generating HTML.

* __`HTML.Comment(text)`__ - Renders to an HTML comment.

* __`HTML.Raw(html)`__ - Renders to a string of HTML to include verbatim.

The `new` keyword is not required before constructors of HTML object types.

All objects and arrays should be considered immutable.  Their properties
are public, but they should only be read, not written.  Arrays should not
be spliced in place.  This convention allows for clean patterns of
processing and transforming HTMLjs trees.


## HTML.Tag

An `HTML.Tag` is created using a tag-specific constructor, like
`HTML.P` for a `<p>` tag or `HTML.INPUT` for an `<input>` tag.  The
resulting object is `instanceof HTML.Tag`.  (The `HTML.Tag`
constructor should not be called directly.)

Tag constructors take an optional attributes dictionary followed
by zero or more children:

```
HTML.HR()

HTML.DIV(HTML.P("First paragraph"),
         HTML.P("Second paragraph"))

HTML.INPUT({type: "text"})

HTML.SPAN({'class': "foo"}, "Some text")
```

### Tag properties

Tags have the following properties:

* `tagName` - The tag name in lowercase (or camelCase)
* `children` - An array of children (always present)
* `attrs` - An attributes dictionary, `null`, or an array (see below)


### Special forms of attributes

The attributes of a Tag may be an array of dictionaries.  In order
for a tag constructor to recognize an array as the attributes argument,
it must be written as `HTML.Attrs(attrs1, attrs2, ...)`, as in this
example:

```
var extraAttrs = {'class': "container"};

var div = HTML.DIV(HTML.Attrs({id: "main"}, extraAttrs),
                   "This is the content.");

div.attrs // => [{id: "main"}, {'class': "container"}]
```

`HTML.Attrs` may also be used to pass a foreign object in place of
an attributes dictionary of a tag.



### Normalized Case for Tag Names

The `tagName` field is always in "normalized case," which is the
official case for that particular element name (usually lowercase).
For example, `HTML.DIV().tagName` is `"div"`.  For some elements
used in inline SVG graphics, the correct case is "camelCase."  For
example, there is an element named `clipPath`.

Web browsers have a confusing policy about case.  They perform case
normalization when parsing HTML, but not when creating SVG elements
at runtime; the correct case is required.

Therefore, in order to avoid ever having to normalize case at
runtime, the policy of HTMLjs is to put the burden on the caller
of functions like `HTML.ensureTag` -- for example, a template
engine -- of supplying correct normalized case.

Briefly put, normlized case is usually lowercase, except for certain
elements where it is camelCase.


### Known Elements

HTMLjs comes preloaded with constructors for all "known" HTML and
SVG elements.  You can use `HTML.P`, `HTML.DIV`, and so on out of
the box.  If you want to create a tag like `<foo>` for some reason,
you have to tell HTMLjs to create the `HTML.FOO` constructor for you
using `HTML.ensureTag` or `HTML.getTag`.

HTMLjs's lists of known elements are public because they are useful to
other packages that provide additional functions not found here, like
functions for normalizing case.



### HTML.getTag(tagName)

* `tagName` - A string in normalized case

Creates a tag constructor for `tagName`, assigns it to the `HTML`
namespace object, and returns it.

For example, `HTML.getTag("p")` returns `HTML.P`.  `HTML.getTag("foo")`
will create and return `HTML.FOO`.

It's very important that `tagName` be in normalized case, or else
an incorrect tag constructor will be registered and used henceforth.


### HTML.ensureTag(tagName)

* `tagName` - A string in normalized case

Ensures that a tag constructor (like `HTML.FOO`) exists for a tag
name (like `"foo"`), creating it if necessary.  Like `HTML.getTag`
but does not return the tag constructor.


### HTML.isTagEnsured(tagName)

* `tagName` - A string in normalized case

Returns whether a particular tag is guaranteed to be available on
the `HTML` object (under the name returned by `HTML.getSymbolName`).

Useful for code generators.


### HTML.getSymbolName(tagName)

* `tagName` - A string in normalized case

Returns the name of the all-caps constructor (like `"FOO"`) for a
tag name in normalized case (like `"foo"`).

In addition to converting `tagName` to all-caps, hyphens (`-`) in
tag names are converted to underscores (`_`).

Useful for code generators.


### HTML.knownElementNames

An array of all known HTML5 and SVG element names in normalized case.


### HTML.knownSVGElementNames

An array of all known SVG element names in normalized case.

The `"a"` element is not included because it is primarily a non-SVG
element.


### HTML.voidElementNames

An array of all "void" element names in normalized case.  Void
elements are elements with a start tag and no end tag, such as BR,
HR, IMG, and INPUT.

The HTML spec defines a closed class of void elements.


### HTML.isKnownElement(tagName)

* `tagName` - A string in normalized case

Returns whether `tagName` is a known HTML5 or SVG element.


### HTML.isKnownSVGElement(tagName)

* `tagName` - A string in normalized case

Returns whether `tagName` is the name of a known SVG element.


### HTML.isVoidElement(tagName)

* `tagName` - A string in normalized case

Returns whether `tagName` is the name of a void element.


## HTML.CharRef({html: ..., str: ...})

Represents a character reference like `&nbsp;`.

A CharRef is not required for escaping special characters like `<`,
which are automatically escaped by HTMLjs.  For example,
`HTML.toHTML("<")` is `"&lt;"`.  Also, now that browsers speak
Unicode, non-ASCII characters typically do not need to be expressed
as character references either.  The purpose of `CharRef` is offer
control over the generated HTML, allowing template engines to
preserve any character references that they come across.

Constructing a CharRef requires two strings, the uninterpreted
"HTML" form and the interpreted "string" form.  Both are required
to be present, and it is up to the caller to make sure the
information is accurate.

Examples of valid CharRefs:

* `HTML.CharRef({html: '&amp;', str: '&'})`
* `HTML.CharRef({html: '&nbsp;', str: '\u00A0'})

Instance properties: `.html`, `.str`


## HTML.Comment(value)

## HTML.Raw(value)

## Foreign objects

Arbitrary objects are allowed in HTMLjs trees, which is useful for
adapting HTMLjs to a wide variety of uses.  Such objects are called
foreign objects.

The one restriction on foreign objects is that they must be
instances of a class -- so-called "constructed objects" (see
`HTML.isConstructedObject`) -- so that they can be distinguished
from the vanilla JS objects that represent attributes dictionaries
when constructing Tags.
