docs/source/install.md, before:

---
title: Install Meteor.js
---

You need to install the Meteor command line tool to create, run, and manage your Meteor.js projects. Check the prerequisites and follow the installation process below.

<h2 id="prereqs">Prerequisites</h2>

<h3 id="prereqs-node">Node.js version</h3>

> Meteor 2.x runs on a deprecated Node.js version (14). Meteor 3.0, currently in its Release Candidate version, runs on Node.js v20. For more information, please consult our [migration guide](https://guide.meteor.com/3.0-migration.html).

- Node.js version >= 10 and <= 14 is required.
- We recommend you using [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) or [Volta](https://volta.sh/) for managing Node.js versions.

<h3 id="prereqs-os">Operating System (OS)</h3>

- Meteor currently supports **OS X, Windows, and Linux**. Only 64-bit is supported.
- Meteor supports Windows 7 / Windows Server 2008 R2 and up.
- Apple M1 is natively supported from Meteor 2.5.1 onward (for older versions, rosetta terminal is required).
- If you are on a Mac M1 (Arm64 version) you need to have Rosetta 2 installed, as Meteor uses it for running MongoDB. Check how to install it [here](https://osxdaily.com/2020/12/04/how-install-rosetta-2-apple-silicon-mac/).
- Disabling antivirus (Windows Defender, etc.) will improve performance.
- For compatibility, Linux binaries are built with CentOS 6.4 i386/amd64.

<h3 id="prereqs-mobile">Mobile Development</h3>

- iOS development requires the latest Xcode.

<h2 id="installation">Installation</h2>

Install the latest official version of Meteor.js from your terminal by running one of the commands below. You can check our [changelog](https://docs.meteor.com/changelog.html) for the release notes.

> Run `node -v` to ensure you are using Node.js 14. Meteor 3.0, currently in its Release Candidate version, runs on Node.js v20.

For Windows, Linux and OS X, you can run the following command:

> Preferably, do not use `sudo` to install Meteor. If you need to use `sudo`, please check the [troubleshooting section](#troubleshooting).

```bash
npm install -g meteor
```

An alternative for Linux and OS X, is to install Meteor by using curl:

```bash
curl https://install.meteor.com/ | sh
```

You can also install a specific Meteor.js version by using curl:

```bash
curl https://install.meteor.com/\?release\=2.8 | sh
```

> Do not install the npm Meteor Tool in your project's package.json. This library is just an installer.

<h2 id="troubleshooting">Troubleshooting</h2>

If your user doesn't have permission to install global binaries, and you need to use sudo, it's necessary to append *--unsafe-perm* to the above command:

```bash
sudo npm install -g meteor --unsafe-perm
```

We strongly discourage the usage of Node.js or Meteor with root permissions.
Only run the above command with sudo if you know what you are doing.

If you only use sudo because of a distribution default permission system, [check this link for fixing it](https://docs.npmjs.com/resolving-eacces-permissions-errors-when-installing-packages-globally).

In some cases you can get this error `npm WARN checkPermissions Missing write access to /usr/local/lib/node_modules` because your Node.js installation was performed with wrong permissions. An easy way to fix this is to install Node.js using [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) and forcing it to be used in your terminal. You can force it in the current session of your terminal by running `nvm use 14`.

As a last resort you can delete the `.meteor` folder in your home directory and try to install Meteor again using the correct permissions.

<h2 id="path-management">PATH management</h2>

By default, the Meteor installer adds its install path (by default, `~/.meteor/`) to your PATH by updating either your `.bashrc`, `.bash_profile`, or `.zshrc` as appropriate. To disable this behavior, install Meteor by running:

```bash
npm install -g meteor --ignore-meteor-setup-exec-path
```

(or by setting the environment variable `npm_config_ignore_meteor_setup_exec_path=true`)

<h2 id="old-versions-m1">Old Versions on Apple M1</h2>

For Apple M1 computers, you can append Rosetta prefix as following, if you need to run older versions of Meteor (before 2.5.1):

```bash
arch -x86_64 npm install -g meteor
```

or select Terminal in the Applications folder, press CMD(⌘)+I and check the "Open using Rosetta" option.

<h2 id="meteor-docker">Run Meteor inside Docker</h2>

You can also use a Docker container for running Meteor inside your CI, or even in your local development toolchain.

We do provide the meteor/meteor-base ubuntu-based Docker image, that comes pre-bundled with Node.JS and Meteor, and runs it as a local user (not as root).

You can refer to our meteor/galaxy-images repository to see how to use it, and the latest version. [More about meteor-base here.](https://github.com/meteor/galaxy-images/blob/master/meteor-base/README.md)


<h2 id="windows">Note for Windows users</h2>

On Windows, the installer runs faster when [Windows Developer Mode](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/apps/get-started/enable-your-device-for-development) is enabled. The installation extracts a large number of small files, which Windows Defender can cause to be very slow.


<h2 id="nvm">Node version manager</h2>

If you use a node version manager that uses a separate global `node_modules` folder for each Node version, you will need to re-install the `meteor` npm package when changing to a Node version for the first time. Otherwise, the `meteor` command will no longer be found.

<h2 id="fish-shell">Note for fish shell users (Linux)</h2>

To be able to user `meteor` command from fish it's needed to include `/home/<user>/.meteor` in `$PATH`; to do that just add this line in `/home/<user>/.config/fish/config.fish` file (replace `<user>` with your username):

`set PATH /home/<user>/.meteor $PATH`

<h2 id="uninstall">Uninstalling Meteor</h2>

If you installed Meteor using npm, you can remove it by running:
`meteor-installer uninstall`

If you installed Meteor using curl, you can remove it by running:
`rm -rf ~/.meteor`
`sudo rm /usr/local/bin/meteor`

Commit message:

Update docs to inform that Meteor 3.0 is released.

docs/source/install.md, after:

---
title: Install Meteor.js
---

You need to install the Meteor command line tool to create, run, and manage your Meteor.js projects. Check the prerequisites and follow the installation process below.

<h2 id="prereqs">Prerequisites</h2>

<h3 id="prereqs-node">Node.js version</h3>

> Meteor 2.x uses the deprecated Node.js 14. Meteor 3.0 has been released and runs on Node.js 20. Check out our [v3 docs](https://v3-docs.meteor.com) and [migration guide](https://v3-migration-docs.meteor.com/).

- Node.js version >= 10 and <= 14 is required.
- We recommend you using [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) or [Volta](https://volta.sh/) for managing Node.js versions.

<h3 id="prereqs-os">Operating System (OS)</h3>

- Meteor currently supports **OS X, Windows, and Linux**. Only 64-bit is supported.
- Meteor supports Windows 7 / Windows Server 2008 R2 and up.
- Apple M1 is natively supported from Meteor 2.5.1 onward (for older versions, rosetta terminal is required).
- If you are on a Mac M1 (Arm64 version) you need to have Rosetta 2 installed, as Meteor uses it for running MongoDB. Check how to install it [here](https://osxdaily.com/2020/12/04/how-install-rosetta-2-apple-silicon-mac/).
- Disabling antivirus (Windows Defender, etc.) will improve performance.
- For compatibility, Linux binaries are built with CentOS 6.4 i386/amd64.

<h3 id="prereqs-mobile">Mobile Development</h3>

- iOS development requires the latest Xcode.

<h2 id="installation">Installation</h2>

Install the latest official version of Meteor.js from your terminal by running one of the commands below. You can check our [changelog](https://docs.meteor.com/changelog.html) for the release notes.

> Run `node -v` to ensure you are using Node.js 14. Meteor 3.0, currently in its Release Candidate version, runs on Node.js v20.

For Windows, Linux and OS X, you can run the following command:

> Preferably, do not use `sudo` to install Meteor. If you need to use `sudo`, please check the [troubleshooting section](#troubleshooting).

```bash
npm install -g meteor
```

An alternative for Linux and OS X, is to install Meteor by using curl:

```bash
curl https://install.meteor.com/ | sh
```

You can also install a specific Meteor.js version by using curl:

```bash
curl https://install.meteor.com/\?release\=2.8 | sh
```

> Do not install the npm Meteor Tool in your project's package.json. This library is just an installer.

<h2 id="troubleshooting">Troubleshooting</h2>

If your user doesn't have permission to install global binaries, and you need to use sudo, it's necessary to append *--unsafe-perm* to the above command:

```bash
sudo npm install -g meteor --unsafe-perm
```

We strongly discourage the usage of Node.js or Meteor with root permissions.
Only run the above command with sudo if you know what you are doing.

If you only use sudo because of a distribution default permission system, [check this link for fixing it](https://docs.npmjs.com/resolving-eacces-permissions-errors-when-installing-packages-globally).

In some cases you can get this error `npm WARN checkPermissions Missing write access to /usr/local/lib/node_modules` because your Node.js installation was performed with wrong permissions. An easy way to fix this is to install Node.js using [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) and forcing it to be used in your terminal. You can force it in the current session of your terminal by running `nvm use 14`.

As a last resort you can delete the `.meteor` folder in your home directory and try to install Meteor again using the correct permissions.

<h2 id="path-management">PATH management</h2>

By default, the Meteor installer adds its install path (by default, `~/.meteor/`) to your PATH by updating either your `.bashrc`, `.bash_profile`, or `.zshrc` as appropriate. To disable this behavior, install Meteor by running:

```bash
npm install -g meteor --ignore-meteor-setup-exec-path
```

(or by setting the environment variable `npm_config_ignore_meteor_setup_exec_path=true`)

<h2 id="old-versions-m1">Old Versions on Apple M1</h2>

For Apple M1 computers, you can append Rosetta prefix as following, if you need to run older versions of Meteor (before 2.5.1):

```bash
arch -x86_64 npm install -g meteor
```

or select Terminal in the Applications folder, press CMD(⌘)+I and check the "Open using Rosetta" option.

<h2 id="meteor-docker">Run Meteor inside Docker</h2>

You can also use a Docker container for running Meteor inside your CI, or even in your local development toolchain.

We do provide the meteor/meteor-base ubuntu-based Docker image, that comes pre-bundled with Node.JS and Meteor, and runs it as a local user (not as root).

You can refer to our meteor/galaxy-images repository to see how to use it, and the latest version. [More about meteor-base here.](https://github.com/meteor/galaxy-images/blob/master/meteor-base/README.md)


<h2 id="windows">Note for Windows users</h2>

On Windows, the installer runs faster when [Windows Developer Mode](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/apps/get-started/enable-your-device-for-development) is enabled. The installation extracts a large number of small files, which Windows Defender can cause to be very slow.


<h2 id="nvm">Node version manager</h2>

If you use a node version manager that uses a separate global `node_modules` folder for each Node version, you will need to re-install the `meteor` npm package when changing to a Node version for the first time. Otherwise, the `meteor` command will no longer be found.

<h2 id="fish-shell">Note for fish shell users (Linux)</h2>

To be able to user `meteor` command from fish it's needed to include `/home/<user>/.meteor` in `$PATH`; to do that just add this line in `/home/<user>/.config/fish/config.fish` file (replace `<user>` with your username):

`set PATH /home/<user>/.meteor $PATH`

<h2 id="uninstall">Uninstalling Meteor</h2>

If you installed Meteor using npm, you can remove it by running:
`meteor-installer uninstall`

If you installed Meteor using curl, you can remove it by running:
`rm -rf ~/.meteor`
`sudo rm /usr/local/bin/meteor`
