v3-docs/docs/index.md, before:

---
# https://vitepress.dev/reference/default-theme-home-page
layout: home

hero:
  text: "The full-stack JavaScript platform"
  tagline: "Stop fighting with frameworks and start shipping real apps"
  image:
    src: /logo.png
    alt: Meteor
  actions:
    - theme: brand
      text: View API Docs
      link: /api
    - theme: alt
      text: View on GitHub
      link: https://github.com/meteor/meteor
features:
  - title: Zero Config
    icon: 🛠️
    details: Use popular frameworks and tools right out-of-the-box. Focus on building features instead of configuring tools.

  - title: Front-end Agnostic
    icon: 🎨
    details: Choose your preferred front-end framework like React, VueJS, Blaze, Svelte, or Solid.

  - title: RPCs API
    icon: 📡
    details: Easily connect back-end and front-end with Methods. Our Remote Procedure Call (RPC) system

  - title: Easy to Deploy
    icon: 🚀
    details: Deploy using one command from the CLI or directly from your Git repository by using Meteor Cloud.

  - title: Real-time Features
    icon: ⚡
    details: Develop apps with real-time features like chats and collaborative apps with ease by using publications and subscriptions.

  - title: TypeScript Support
    icon: 📝
    details: Experience the power of TypeScript inference to boost productivity for your full-stack application.

  - title: Built-in Accounts
    icon: 👤
    details: Login and Accounts package ready to use with your app. Never rebuilt an authentication system again.

  - title: Pioneering and Reliable
    icon: 🏆
    details: Developed for over a decade and trusted by industry giants. Alows you to build and scale efficiently.
---

Commit message:

Update index.md with new informatiom

v3-docs/docs/index.md, after:

---
# https://vitepress.dev/reference/default-theme-home-page
layout: home

hero:
  text: "Meteor API Docs"
  tagline: "All the documentation you need to build and deploy your app with Meteor."
  image:
    src: /logo.png
    alt: Meteor
  actions:
    - theme: brand
      text: View API Docs
      link: /api
    - theme: alt
      text: View on GitHub
      link: https://github.com/meteor/meteor

# TODO: Update with Docs features and links as they are added
features:
  - title: Zero Config
    icon: 🛠️
    details: Use popular frameworks and tools right out-of-the-box. Focus on building features instead of configuring tools.

  - title: Front-end Agnostic
    icon: 🎨
    details: Choose your preferred front-end framework like React, VueJS, Blaze, Svelte, or Solid.

  - title: RPCs API
    icon: 📡
    details: Easily connect back-end and front-end with Methods. Our Remote Procedure Call (RPC) system

  - title: Easy to Deploy
    icon: 🚀
    details: Deploy using one command from the CLI or directly from your Git repository by using Meteor Cloud.

  - title: Real-time Features
    icon: ⚡
    details: Develop apps with real-time features like chats and collaborative apps with ease by using publications and subscriptions.

  - title: TypeScript Support
    icon: 📝
    details: Experience the power of TypeScript inference to boost productivity for your full-stack application.

  - title: Built-in Accounts
    icon: 👤
    details: Login and Accounts package ready to use with your app. Never rebuilt an authentication system again.

  - title: Pioneering and Reliable
    icon: 🏆
    details: Developed for over a decade and trusted by industry giants. Alows you to build and scale efficiently.
---
